Add `osu!catch World Cup 2025: Finals Recap` news post (#13530)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2025/2025-07-18-osucatch-world-cup-2025-finals-recap.md

Finally, an already existing and community favourite map in [Bunnrei](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/829284)'s [conflict](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398941#fruits/5199115) (MM2) would appear once again, edited to be fitting for a Finals mappool as an anti-mod Mixed Mod pick. Despite the apparent straight-forward nature of the map, the circle size of 5 and approach rate of 8.2 turned it into a fierce challenge for the players who had to play it on Hidden or Hard Rock.

---

This pool once again featured an [osu! original](/wiki/osu!_originals), making it the fourth week in a row to have one!

[![](/wiki/shared/news/2025-07-18-osucatch-world-cup-2025-finals-recap/petitponey_banner.png)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398893#fruits/5199031)

<div class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <audio controls>
        <source src="https://assets.ppy.sh/artists/370/Songs/Ruby_My_Dear_-_Petit_Poney.mp3">
    </audio>
</div>

> Well-known within the osu! community for their eccentric breakcore tracks, [Ruby My Dear](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/370) would make their first osu! original for this mappool, with [Petit Poney](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398893#fruits/5199031). Mapped by [skill issue lol](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/12498861) as the Hard Rock 1 pick, it features many of the classic Ruby My Dear breaks and style switch-ups — all reflected within the map, resulting in a consistency test filled with tricky flows and abrupt accelerations. The pony might not be so small after all...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Well known within the osu! community for their eccentric breakcore tracks, [Ruby My Dear](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/370) would make their first osu! original for this mappool with [Petit Poney](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398893#fruits/5199031). Mapped by [skill issue lol](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/12498861) as the Hard Rock 1 pick, it features many of the classic Ruby My Dear breaks and style switch-ups — all reflected within the map, resulting in a consistency test filled with tricky flows and abrupt accelerations. The pony might not be so small after all...
```

## Finals summary

| Team A |  |  | Team B |
| --: | :-: | :-: | :-- |
| Italy ::{ flag=IT }:: | -1 | **0** | ::{ flag=CL }:: **Chile** |
| **Finland** ::{ flag=FI }:: | **7** | 1 | ::{ flag=FR }:: France |
| **Finland** ::{ flag=FI }:: | **7** | 5 | ::{ flag=CL }:: Chile |
| United States ::{ flag=US }:: | 4 | **7** | ::{ flag=AR }:: **Argentina** |

> Unfortunately this round, Italy had to forfeit their losers' bracket match against Chile, resulting in their elimination. Three teams would be left to try and qualify for the next round through that bracket, namely Finland, France, and Chile. France would also end up eliminated in their first match of the week against Finland, leaving Finland and Chile to face off for a spot on the podium, with both teams looking to make history.
> 
> Over in the winners' bracket was one of the most anticipated matchups of the tournament, as the two clear favourites, the number one and two seeds, the United States and Argentina — played for a guaranteed spot in the Grand Finals. Let's have a look at how both matches unfolded!

Reviewer: don't we usually display flags in this section?

```suggestion
Unfortunately this round, Italy had to forfeit their losers' bracket match against ::{ flag=CL }:: Chile, resulting in their elimination. Three teams would be left to try and qualify for the next round through that bracket, namely ::{ flag=FI }:: Finland, ::{ flag=FR }:: France, and ::{ flag=CL }:: Chile. ::{ flag=FR }:: France would also end up eliminated in their first match of the week against ::{ flag=FI }:: Finland, leaving ::{ flag=FI }:: Finland and ::{ flag=CL }:: Chile to face off for a spot on the podium, with both teams looking to make history.

Over in the winners' bracket was one of the most anticipated matchups of the tournament, as the two clear favourites, the number one and two seeds, the ::{ flag=US }:: United States and ::{ flag=AR }:: Argentina — played for a guaranteed spot in the Grand Finals. Let's have a look at how both matches unfolded!
```

## Match highlights

### ::{ flag=FI }:: Finland vs. ::{ flag=CL }:: Chile

**[You can view the match information here!](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/matches/118667659)**\
**[You can view the match VOD here!](https://www.twitch.tv/videos/2511496925?t=0h4m2s)**

<div align="center" class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <iframe width="95%" style="aspect-ratio: 16 / 9;" src="https://player.twitch.tv/?autoplay=false&parent=osu.ppy.sh&time=0h4m2s&video=2511496925" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="true" scrolling="no"></iframe>
</div>

> The losers' bracket final saw Finland (#6) facing off against Chile (#9). In recent years, neither team had managed to break into the top three — Chile's last podium finish was in 2019, while Finland have never placed higher than fourth, dating all the way back to 2013. For both sides, this was the opportunity to prove their worth. Chile entered this year without several key players, and many doubted their ability to reach the later stages of the tournament after seeing their Qualifiers performance. As for Finland, concerns about their ability to scale and play endgame pools were raised, which was what led to their elimination in this very round last year.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The losers' bracket final saw Finland (#6) facing off against Chile (#9). In recent years, neither team had managed to break into the top three — Chile's last podium finish was in 2019, while Finland had never placed higher than fourth, dating all the way back to 2013. For both sides, this was the opportunity to prove their worth. Chile entered this year without several key players, and many doubted their ability to reach the later stages of the tournament after seeing their Qualifiers performance. As for Finland, concerns about their ability to scale and play endgame pools were raised, which was what led to their elimination in this very round last year.
```

> Coming into this match, it was very difficult to give a clear edge to either team. Throughout the tournament, Chile had focused on the Double Time, Mixed Mod and Hidden brackets, while Finland opted for the more gimmicky picks, as well as the Mixed Mod and control Double Time picks. Chile were favoured on maps such as [DT1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398898#fruits/5199042), which was promptly banned by Finland, who themselves saw their strongest weapon, [NM3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398883#fruits/5199003), banned by Chile. Most maps left would be very contested either way, and the teams knew it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Coming into this match, it was very difficult to give a clear edge to either team. Throughout the tournament, Chile had focused on the Double Time, Mixed Mod and Hidden brackets, while Finland opted for the more gimmicky picks, as well as the Mixed Mod and control Double Time picks. Chile was favoured on maps such as [DT1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398898#fruits/5199042), which was promptly banned by a Finland that themselves saw their strongest weapon, [NM3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398883#fruits/5199003), banned by Chile. Most maps left would be very contested either way, and the teams knew it.
```

Chile looked comfortable at the start of the match, with back-to-back picks won by more than 100k points, in [HD1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398887#fruits/5199012) and [DT3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398909#fruits/5199074). On the other side, Finland struggled to find their footing — their [NM4](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398973#fruits/5199190) pick won by barely more than 2k points, but they went on to lose [MM2](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398941#fruits/5199115), conceding an early break point.

They were quick to get back on their feet though, taking Chile's [MM3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2399039#fruits/5199376), followed by [DT4](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2399031#fruits/5199360) to bring the scoreline back to even. The next couple of picks would be quite chaotic — Chile would once again concede a break point, this time on [HD2](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398903#fruits/5199063), by just 611 points. But Finland failed to capitalise on it by also losing their own [NM2](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398885#fruits/5199008) pick.

> Seeing as things could swing either way depending on their performance at the moment, picking proved to be a difficult task for both of the teams. But Chile's [MM1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398907#fruits/5199071) and Finland's [NM1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398958#fruits/5199148) would go to their respective teams, leaving the score at 5–5. However, Chile's next [HD1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398911#fruits/5199078) pick would be their biggest mistake this tournament, letting Finland get a break point, allowing them to close out the match 7–5 on [HR3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398918#fruits/5199091) by only 575 points.

Reviewer: starting a sentence with "but" is technically not correct form, so doing it excessively doesn't feel right

```suggestion
Seeing as things could swing either way depending on their performance at the moment, picking proved to be a difficult task for both of the teams. Nevertheless, Chile's [MM1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398907#fruits/5199071) and Finland's [NM1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398958#fruits/5199148) would go to their respective teams, leaving the score at 5–5. However, Chile's next [HD1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398911#fruits/5199078) pick would be their biggest mistake this tournament, letting Finland get a break point, allowing them to close out the match 7–5 on [HR3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398918#fruits/5199091) by only 575 points.
```

> Finland had done it, this year was the one they would finally achieve a podium finish in CWC. Had a couple of close picks gone slightly differently, Chile could have made it, but not this time. Now having to play in the losers' bracket final, Finland's biggest challenge is ahead of them. They are the clear underdogs in the final three, but they also have nothing to lose. Tune in to their match this week to see what will happen next!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finland had done it, and this year was the one they would finally achieve a podium finish in CWC. Had a couple of close picks gone slightly differently, Chile could have made it, but not this time. Now having to play in the losers' bracket Final, Finland's biggest challenge is ahead of them. They are the clear underdogs in the final three, but they also have nothing to lose. Tune in to their match this week to see what will happen next!
```

### ::{ flag=US }:: United States vs. ::{ flag=AR }:: Argentina

**[You can view the match information here!](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/matches/118668269)**\
**[You can view the match VOD here!](https://www.twitch.tv/videos/2511614013)**

<div align="center" class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <iframe width="95%" style="aspect-ratio: 16 / 9;" src="https://player.twitch.tv/?autoplay=false&parent=osu.ppy.sh&video=2511614013" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="true" scrolling="no"></iframe>
</div>

There it was — the duel of titans. For anyone following the osu!catch scene, it was no surprise to see the winners' bracket featuring the United States (#1) and Argentina (#2). After last year, a newfound rivalry had formed between these Grand Finalists. The United States won 7–4, coming from the winners' bracket, and ending the tournament without dropping a single match. Argentina, meanwhile, had only lost to the United States prior to the Grand Finals. This year, however, things were different. Argentina had only grown stronger — and they were out for revenge.

> Argentina were the first to pick, with a dominant performance on [HD2](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398903#fruits/5199063). The United States followed up with [HR2](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2399190#fruits/5199818), and also won comfortably. However, Argentina had the edge on the Hidden picks, so the United States would have to properly navigate their pick strategy to match them. The second picks worked out for both teams, being [NM2](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398885#fruits/5199008) for Argentina, with ::{ flag=AR }:: [-Story-](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8172283) SS'ing it, and [MM3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2399039#fruits/5199376) thanks to a No Mod SS from ::{ flag=US }:: [Dahcreeper](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6926006).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Argentina was the first to pick, with a dominant performance on [HD2](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398903#fruits/5199063). The United States followed up with [HR2](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2399190#fruits/5199818), and also won comfortably. However, Argentina had the edge on the Hidden picks, so the United States would have to properly navigate their pick strategy to match them. The second picks worked out for both teams, being [NM2](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398885#fruits/5199008) for Argentina, with ::{ flag=AR }:: [-Story-](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8172283) SS'ing it, and [MM3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2399039#fruits/5199376) thanks to a No Mod SS from ::{ flag=US }:: [Dahcreeper](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6926006).
```

> The United States would be the first to get a break point on [NM3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398883#fruits/5199003) with a strong 2 miss run from ::{ flag=US }:: [Dahcreeper](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6926006), but Argentina would fire right back at them by taking their [NM4](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398973#fruits/5199190) pick, thanks to ::{ flag=AR }:: [-Story-](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8172283)'s 2 miss score. With a high potential to perform at any given time, both teams could realistically win their opponent's picks, and we were starting to see it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The United States were the first to get a break point on [NM3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398883#fruits/5199003) with a strong 2-miss run from ::{ flag=US }:: [Dahcreeper](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6926006), but Argentina fired right back at them by taking their [NM4](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398973#fruits/5199190) pick, thanks to ::{ flag=AR }:: [-Story-](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8172283)'s 2-miss score. With a high potential to perform at any given time, both teams could realistically win their opponent's picks, and we were starting to see it.
```

> Argentina opted for [HD3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398911#fruits/5199078) and won, but the [DT1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398898#fruits/5199042) pick from the United States would not end up working out, as ::{ flag=AR }:: [Naarkz](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/19490380) would manage to secure an FC to carry his team to another break point. But that break point would be matched by the United States, taking [HR3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398918#fruits/5199091).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Argentina opted for [HD3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398911#fruits/5199078) and won, but the [DT1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398898#fruits/5199042) pick from the United States would not end up working out, as ::{ flag=AR }:: [Naarkz](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/19490380) managed to secure an FC to carry his team to another break point. However, that break point would be matched by the United States on [HR3](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398918#fruits/5199091).
```

> But on their own picks, the United States could not manage to find the right answer against their opponent, who would end up taking [MM2](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398941#fruits/5199115) to put them on match point. And despite a good fight from the United States, Argentina would close out the match 7–4 on [HD1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398887#fruits/5199012).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On their own picks, the United States could not manage to find the right answer against their opponent, who ended up taking [MM2](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398941#fruits/5199115) to put them on match point. As such, despite a good fight from the United States, Argentina closed out the match 7–4 on [HD1](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2398887#fruits/5199012).
```
